What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

When a repository is initialized, the staging area is created in the working directory. This is necessary to create commits.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository?
What value do you think it offers?

The staging area is where files to be committed are submitted for tracking. This is separate from the working directory and the repository as it is the intermediary stages to creating commits in the working directory which is where the repository is stored. It offers the value of establishing what data is to be tracked for saving changes.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical
change?

With git status, the staging area can be checked to see if a file has been added for commit.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history
organized? How would branches help?

Branches are helpful for keeping history organized when testing additions to code that are not part of primary development processes. Branches help when testing new features or changes that depart from the established code base.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

Diagrams provide the information necessary to distinguish where commits are located within the branch structure and how to expand it when adding new commits.

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in
the diagram the way we do?

Merging two branches together combines their commit history and changes. We represent it in a diagram as a convergence upon a commit to show two branches meeting at a point of commit.

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges
manually?

The pros of automatic merging are it's convenience in combining code without much effort and then delineating where in the code conflicts arise. However the cons are that code may be assembled automatically in a structure that is not preferable to the user.